---
layout: post
title:  "v2ray"
date:   2019-01-04 15:10:00 +0800
categories: howto
---

After chinese spring festival holiday, shadowsocks failed to work with my topway network. There are lots of `connection timeout` records in the logs. I saw some complaints about this problem in the issues page of shadowsocks-libev on github. Other users replied that the tcp connections were blocked on the way back and suggested replacing ip or use simple-obfs.

Replacing ip will affect other users on this server, so I turned to check simple-obfs.

On the github page of simple-obfs, it said it was deprecated and there is a derivated project called v2ray-plugin. Then I said to myself, why not change to v2ray instead of using the v2ray-plugin?

This post is about the problems I have encountered when I tried v2ray.

# Which protocol?
V2ray works like a platform, many transportation protocols can work on this platform: tcp, websocket, http2, mkcp and quic. 
- Normal tcp doesn't work in my network condition. 
- I tried vmess + tls later and found it works very well. 
- http2 is not so stable. 
- Websocket + Apache2 + cloudflare is stable but the setup is not easy.
- mkcp work just ok. Bandwidth is restricted under China Telecome network condition.
- I didn't try quic. Maybe it has the same problem as mkcp.

# tls
I got a free domain from Freenom and use the `acme.sh` to get ssl certificate as instructed in the v2ray user manual. You may fail if you didn't set A records to your server ip in the DNS setting. 

# Apache2
I tried Nginx first as the WebSocket proxy, it is not complicated for me but failed and I don't know why. Then turn to Caddy, failed again, it is complicated for me, really. Then Apache2, I follow the guide on DigitalOcean about how to setup Apache on Ubuntu 18.04. But still I got lots of errors.
## a2enmod
1. ssl module: include `sslEngin on` in the config file, and `a2enmod ssl` to enable ssl module.
2. http_proxy module: `ProxyPass` doesn't work if this module is disabled. run `a2enmod http_proxy`
3. proxy_wstunnel module: this is to proxy websocket, run `a2enmod http_proxy`, there is no need to add upgrade=WebSocket to ProxyPass, it will handles it automatically.
4. proxy_http2 module: run `a2enmod proxy_http2` to enable it. But I failed to proxy http2. I don't how to configurate it.

# The best choice
For me, both the vmess + tls and Websocket + tls + Apache2 + cloudflare are ok. the first one seems faster and the second one seems much more safe.

# Others
I want to try h2 and will update this post if I figure it out.
